>> Scott Moss: Okay,
now we're gonna talk about operations.
We've been using query this whole time.
So we'll talk a little more about that,
but
I'm also gonna talk about mutations
which are the opposite of queries.
So queries in order to make a GraphQL
schema, you at minimum need one query.
If I got rid of this, this is gonna break.
I got rid of all these queries here,
I'm pretty sure this my
thing will not load up.
>> Scott Moss: I mean it will break,
it won't work.
You have to have at least one query.
You don't need a mutation, we don't have
any mutations, everything works fine.
But you need at least one query I believe.
>> Scott Moss: So queries you can
think of those as like get requests.
You want to get something
from the database.
There's something you're trying to
get back from this graphical server,
those are queries.
A mutation is something you're
trying to modify or create,
you're trying to mutate something on
the server, so those are mutations.
You could think of those as post, put,
delete, queries are get, get one,
mutations are post, put,
delete as far as crud goes.
So the other thing we can do with queries
is that we can take arguments, right?
So if I say, cool, you wanna search,
but what do you wanna search for?
I can pass in arguments here, and these
arguments could have different types.
So I can say, I wanna search for
search results.
Let's see we got tweets and profiles.
So tweet has an ID profiles have ID.
So I'll say I wanna search for
an ID, whose type is ID.
>> Scott Moss: So this is how you
would pass an argument to a query.
And then you'd have access
to this argument and
the code that you would write to resolve
this and this is also strictly typed.
You can pass as many arguments as you
want, it doesn't really matter, but
eventually they get so
long, it's just like code.
If I make a function that's
more than two arguments,
I'm just gonna get rid of those
arguments and make an object.
Now you gotta pass in an object,
more than two arguments is gross.
So I'm just gonna have an object that you
gotta pass in with the properties on it.
The same thing is true here,
you will make an input type.
So if I were going to make
something more complicated,
I could say, input SearchInput,
using the input keyword here.
And then name spacing your
input this is not required, but
it just makes more sense for
me as a human and
when I go read it in the documentation
that I know that the input type.
And then it's kinda just
like an object type,
you can search for an ID, it's optional.
Maybe you wanna search for
a name, that's optional.
So I'm not gonna make it required, now you
can go down here, and it's probably more
appropriately to call this input,
I usually always just call it input.
You can call it whatever you want, but the
type is SearchInput, and it's required,
you have to pass in an input here
in order for this to work, right?
So I can save that.
Let's make sure we didn't break anything,
let's go back here, still works,
let me get rid of this.
I'm gonna do a query for search.
And notice down here this
variables panel popped open.
So you can see I have Arguments now.
I have one argument whose type is input,
so it's an object whose type is input.
I'm gonna click into that and
I'm gonna say yeah, ID and a name, so
I'll have to fill those out.
Well, I don't have to because
they're both optional, but I will.
And then, same thing,
just give me this stuff.
So I'll say, I want that, give me the name
here, and then I'll pass up for an ID.
I don't know how this works with
mock data, so I'll just do that.
And for a name, I'll put Jess,
and we'll see what happens.
So you can see, yeah,
it's still just gonna return mock data,
it just kinda ignores this.
But this is how you would
pass in the variables.
Notice on the query though,
you have this weird syntax,
I talk a lot about this syntax
in the client side course.
But the best way I can describe this
is you can think of this right here as
an operation or you could think of it as
you creating a function in JavaScript.
This is you making a function and
this is you describing the arguments for
that function, right?
If you were doing this in Typescript,
you say, here's the argument name,
here's the argument type,
it's the same thing.
It's just that all arguments in TypeScript
have to start with a dollar sign.
That's how it knows it's an argument.
That's the only difference between this
and making a function in TypeScript.
I'm making a function called search.
So you can call this whatever you want
cuz it's a function, it doesn't matter.
And I'm declaring
an argument called input,
whose type is SearchInput and
it is required.
And then on the next line,
I'm calling a function called search.
This search function already exists,
I'm calling it,
it is demanding that I pass in an argument
called input whose value is this variable.
So this is me making a function and
declaring an argument,
this is me calling a function and
passing in the argument.
It's the equivalent of if
you were in JavaScript and
you were making a function called action,
and action took in some options,
whose type is a Record of,
>> Scott Moss: I
don't know how this works, this is like
a string, I forgot how Record works.
I don't know, you'll have some type here,
let's do this name string,
okay, name string.
And then we have that, and
then somewhere in here,
I'm gonna call a function that
already exists somewhere, right?
It could be like
thisFunctionAlreadyExists.
>> Scott Moss: And I'll call it and
I'm gonna pass in options.
That's the equivalent of that, it's
the same thing, it's the exact same thing.
I'm making a function,
I'm declaring arguments,
now I'm passing it into
a function that already exists.
It's the best way I can describe it.
>> Scott Moss: So that's what
we're doing here and then yeah,
you run it, you get some stuff.
I promise we're gonna get to making
the app, there's a lot to cover here.
So mutations, let's do some mutations,
I'm curious how this works with the mock
schema, I haven't done this in a while.
But mutations are how you make things,
so they're very similar to queries,
in fact, they just make stuff,
so let's make some mutations.
So the way you make a mutation is you say,
type
>> Scott Moss: Mutation.
I can spell, there we go.
And then let's say I wanna make a tweet.
So I can say makeTweet, okay?
You gotta make a tweet,
you gotta pass up some stuff.
Let's say you gotta pass in some content.
So give me some content.
Let's type String, required, and I'll.
And I'll return back a Tweet
that's always there.
And it's not nake, it's makeTweet.
So now I have that mutation,
I can go back to our app or Apollo Studio.
If I go back here, you can see now
I have a mutation on the root type.
So I'm just gonna uncheck that,
get rid of this.
I'm gonna click on the mutation,
I only have one called makeTweet,
so I'm gonna add that.
I want the content, I want the ID.
I have to satisfy the request of
the non-null content string, so
I'm gonna go down here and
say, this is my tweet.
>> Scott Moss: And I'm gonna run this.
And now I made a tweet.
>> Scott Moss: That's it,
it's very similar to queries.
In reality, it's the exact same
syntax as running a query,
it's just the behavior on
the back end is different.
You're creating something,
you're modifying something,
you're deleting something, whereas a query
is expected to just get something.
Now, does GraphQL actually care or
know what you're doing on your resolvers?
No, it has no idea.
Just like if you were to make a REST
route that we're supposed to get all your
to-dos, there's not a stop of you from
creating something there as well,
it doesn't care, right?
So, there's no checking or
knowing what you're actually doing,
it's just that's the convention
you should be following.
Mutations are for modifying and deleting
and creating, queries are for getting.
But obviously you'll have like,
side effects.
One side effect might be,
I'm doing a query that gets data, but
I'm also making a post request to my
analytics service that logs this.
So you still might be modifying
something inside of a query,
you might have side effects and
things like that.
So it's not always one for one, but that's
the expectation, queries and mutations.
Any questions on mutations?
They're literally the same
thing as queries,
your logic is different
on the resolving side.
And yeah, you can use inputs the same
way you did them with queries.
>> Scott Moss: Subscriptions, we won't
be diving into subscriptions today, but
subscriptions are basically web hooks,
I'm sorry, web sockets.
If you want real-time
communication with the GraphQL API,
you would use subscriptions so
you can subscribe to something specific.
I don't know if the mock schema,
will allow us to do that, I'm not sure.
But this is for WebSockets,
we also couldn't really do this on Next.js
anyway cuz Next.Js has
service functions and
you can't do WebSockets
in a service environment.
The way the WebSockets work they need a
long-lived connection a service function,
spin up and
shut down to do transactional things.
So you couldn't use WebSockets in
a serverless environment without a third
party service sitting in between them,
and that's just a lot of work right now.
But that's how you would do WebSockets,
two-way communication.
We talked about input types,
we talked about arguments.
Okay, that's all the schema definition
language that you,- this is literally 99%
of GraphQL schema if you know this,
you know how to make a schema.
There's really not much more
other than custom directives,
advanced union types and things like that.
You can even make custom scholars I guess
I didn't really talk about that but
we have the scholarships.
You can make custom ones if you want a
date field maybe, or something like that.
You can do that as well, but that's it.
If this is all you ever knew,
you can make any graphical schema, so
we're past that part.
How does GraphQL know whether to
run before or after the directive?
It's up to the directive to
decide when it wants to run.
I think there's gonna be a lot
of directive questions, so
I'm just gonna show the documentation
on what that would look like.
Because it is kinda what
the hell's going on there?
How's that working?
I'll just show you what a directive
might look like as far as making one.
Let's see if they have an example of
custom directives implemented here.
Okay, this is not what I'm looking for
I'll show you custom directives graphql.
>> Scott Moss: So let's say you
wanted an uppercase directive,
let me make this bigger.
You wanted to create
a directive called uppercase.
So first thing you do is in your schema,
you would use the directive keyword.
You would say this is the name of the
directory that I want you to use the on
keyword and this is a enom of
where this directive should work.
So in this case, the field definition so
that means you can use this
uppercase directive on fields.
There are other different definitions
on which a directive can work on.
And this example they want to be
able to uppercase fields, right?
So, then in their code you can
also pass in argument stuff, but
then in there, let me see here all
the value all the supported location.
So scholar object field definition,
argument definition, interface unions,
enoms you can let him make a director for
anything, okay?
And then let me see if they have
the code that I wanna show you.
So here's the uppercase one, this one's
a little more, yeah, there we go.
So on the object field, so executes once
for each object field in the schema.
So every single field that
you have in the schema,
this function is going to run, right?
And then what it attempts to do is, hey,
does this field have the specified
directives that I'm trying to check for?
If it does have the uppercase directive,
what I wanna do is I wanna
get the config for that field, which in
this case returns the resolve function.
The resolve function, we're gonna
create resolvers in a minute, but
this is the function that runs that
returns the value of that field.
So what you can see here is they
are overriding that resolve function.
So they're basically creating a wrapper,
it's like a higher order function around
the original resolve function for
that field.
So let's say the resolve function for
that field was literally just
a function that returns the name.
What they're gonna say is,
okay that's not what it is anymore,
what it is now it's gonna be this
function, and then internally,
inside of the function that they create,
they call the original resolve function.
So this is how they get the value of it.
Once they get the value of it,
then they go, is it a type string, cool,
uppercase it and return that.
This is a very common pattern,
it's not something unique to GraphQL.
I mean, you do this in React,
it's basically middleware.
You're applying middleware to,
in this case, a field.
So you're like, hey, I'm gonna override
the original functionality of what
normally happens here, and
I'm going to say it is this now.
And inside my implementation, I'm gonna
call the original one to get the result
unmodified by whatever code I'm doing.
And then once I get the result,
I'm then gonna modify it and
return that modified result.
So that's what GraphQL is gonna see.
So in this case, it's quite simple,
it's basically what I suggested earlier.
They wait until the data is resolved and
then they run a function on it, and
that's what's happening here.
It's not too crazy, but
it's quite powerful.
And this was what I'm showing you is
gonna be specific to the GraphQL server
framework that you're using.
They all do it differently,
they all have different versions.
That's why I was like,
this doesn't look too familiar cuz I
use something else that uses a different
version and it's slightly different, but
the logic is basically the same.
I'm hijacking a resolve function,
I'm recreating it by calling the original
one and doing some some type of thing.
So it can get pretty crazy.